[MUSIC]
Let's pull up the exercise.
Does anyone have any questions so far?
Like what we've done so far.
Yeah?
>> Yeah, one question.
In your example,
the two lists that you have,
once you've compared six
to seven then you just
add the last two, seven and
eight on but what if it was seven and
four in that order.
>> Seven and
four?
>> So, if the second one was two,
seven, four then eight is never been hit.
In this case, so substitute 8 for
4 would have been compared against.
>> So let me draw on this to
see if I get,
make sure I get this right, okay.
Screensoft, So
you're saying So
here we're not gonna have 8,
we're gonna have 4, is that-
>> Correct.
>> Okay, so you're gonna say,
I'll just walk through
the whole algorithm with you.
So compare 1 to 2, take 1,
compare 2 to 5, take 2,
compare 5 to 7, take 5,
compare 6 to 7, take 6.
This is the fundamental
flaw in what you're saying,
is because this list has to be sorted.
Before it gets to you, it's always gonna
be sorted and you can make that assumption
that it's always gonna be sorted
by the time it gets to you.
If it's not sorted,
something else in your code is broken.
So you need to fix that to make
sure that it gets to you sorted.
So yes, good question.
Yeah.
Great.
So something I'm not sure if I
covered it but just to say it again.
One of these list is going to
run out first, just right?
One of them is going to run out of
elements to put into your array.
And so if A comes first then
you put all the rest of the,
let me figure out what I'm trying to say.
So list 1 runs out first,
then you add everything from this 2,
if list 2 runs out first, then you
add everything from list 1, right?
That's what I was trying to say.
Because you have no guarantee of list 1 or
list 2 having more elements or greater
elements or anything like that that you
just know that you have two lists right.
Or another words you can swap list 1 and
list 2 in this equation and
that's a total possible scenario.
Okay, so I’ve again recap here
what you are supposed to do.
You're gonna do something that does merge
sort, so call your function merge sort.
It's gonna take in an array of numbers and
return a sorted array of numbers.
If you want to read the stitching
algorithm just grab it off of the page
that we' just were on.
I don't have any visualization for
this part, just so
you know so, you're on your own to do the
console log or whatever you want to do.
I would definitely recommend changing it
to X describe instead of describe because,
or else you're going to stack overflow and
everything's going to crash and
everyone's going to die, don't do that.
And yeah,
any questions about merge sort or
the requirements or anything like that?
Another trick with Code pen they
just added which I don't know too
much about it.
We actually do have a console
down here that you can use.
So if I say like up here console.log hi.
Should show up down here right?
So if you, yeah,
console.log will show up there.
I'm also pretty sure they will show
up in your normal JavaScript console,
which they do.
Your JavaScript console gets really
noisy with code pen though so
I tend to ignore it and
I tend to just use the console here.
Okay, so just to reiterate
this is a difficult problem,
so if this seems difficult
it's because it is difficult.
So feel okay, if you don't necessarily
get it the first time, right?
It might take you a couple times to wrap
your mind around everything that happens.
But again, write your merge sort and
that's a good place to start.
Write merge sort that just breaks
one list into two smaller lists of
roughly equal sides, if it's of list
size five one side's gonna get three,
one side's gonna get two,
doesn't matter which side.
Just be consistent about it,
and then take those lists and
break them into smaller lists,
that's the first place to start.
Get your list broken into lists of one,
and then once you're at that point then
start writing your stitch algorithm that's
going to stitch those smaller arrays
back together in a sorted way.